{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-latin\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww24800\viewh12180\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # \uc0\u55357 \u56522  iFood Consumer Behavior Analysis (Tableau Portfolio)\
\
This project analyzes consumer behavior using the iFood marketing dataset, focusing on segmentation, distribution channels, income, tenure, churn, and customer lifetime value (CLV). Visuals are created using Tableau to reveal actionable insights for marketing and customer strategy.\
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u55357 \u56513  Dashboard Titles & Descriptions\
\
### 1. **Average Churned Spending**\
Shows how spending behavior differs between retained and churned customers. Highlights key drop-off points.\
\
### 2. **CLV (5 Year)**\
Estimates Customer Lifetime Value based on tenure and total spending.\
\
### 3. **Customer Average Spending**\
Breakdown of average spending per customer segment. Useful for identifying high-value groups.\
\
### 4. **Distribution Channel and Churned**\
Analyzes which channels are most associated with customer retention or churn.\
\
### 5. **Distribution Channel and Education**\
Highlights preferences for marketing channels by customer education levels.\
\
### 6. **General Overlook: iFood Consumer Segments**\
Provides a high-level overview of consumer distribution based on key demographics and behaviors.\
\
### 7. **Heatmap: Customer Average Income**\
Heatmap of average income by demographic segment. Helps in identifying premium market segments.\
\
### 8. **High Income Group Clustering**\
Clusters customers with high income based on tenure and engagement.\
\
### 9. **Income and Distribution Channel**\
Visualizes spending and engagement across income groups and channel preferences.\
\
### 10. **Marital Status and Distribution Channel**\
Compares channel effectiveness across marital status segments.\
\
### 11. **Tenure & Average Spending**\
Evaluates how tenure (customer lifespan) relates to average spending.\
\
### 12. **Top 10 Spenders Profile**\
Profile of the top 10 highest spending customers, including age, income, and channel usage.\
\
### 13. **Total vs Average Channel Distribution Spending**\
Compares total and per-customer average spending across channels to evaluate cost-efficiency.\
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u55358 \u56800  Insights Summary\
- **Couples buy more. Recommended Actions: We can present pricing, bundles or products to specifically target couples..\
- **Catalog rocks.The Store has more total sales but on average, people spend more on catalog.  Recommended Actions: Push more campaign on catalog sales.\
- **High-income, educated, couples accumulate more in totals.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Recommended Actions:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	a	}\uc0\u65279 \u65279 \u65279 Expand channel to find this similar segments.\
{\listtext	b	}\uc0\u65279 \u65279 \u65279 Develop products that resonate to this segment.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 - **Potential sales loss. There's certain group which average spending is high but risk of being churned.\
Recommended Actions\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Email/Launch campaign specifically to activate this segment.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
---\
\
## \uc0\u55357 \u57056  Tools Used\
- Tableau (Visualization)\
- Excel (Data Prep & Cleaning)\
- GitHub (Portfolio Hosting)\
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u55357 \u56524  How to View\
Each `.png` corresponds to a Tableau visualization. You can find the `.twbx` Tableau workbook and/or exported visuals in this repo.\
\
---\
\
## \uc0\u55357 \u56555  Contact\
For questions or collaboration, feel free to reach out via [Nugrah Nurrohman/nugrahmaindonesa@gmail.com].\
}